Q1: The highest pressure in veins is in the leg  
Answer: 1  

Q2: Severe hyperventilation (low CO2) can lead to loss of consciousness  
Answer: 1  

Q3: Collateral flow can demage the myocardium  
Answer: 0  

Q4: Isovolumic relaxation time (IVRT) - is the interval from aortic valve closure to mitral valve opening.  
Answer: 1  

Q5: Atrial contraction corresponds 70-80 % of total ventricular filling  
Answer: 0  

Q6: The residual volume is the volume of air remaining in the lungs after the most forceful expiration  
Answer: 1  

Q7: The small diameter airways are the main sites of airways resistance  
Answer: 0  

Q8: The lungs are fully emptied and filled with each breath  
Answer: 0  

Q9: PO2 in the pulmonary vein and the left atrium is equal  
Answer: 0  

Q10: The central chemoreceptors sense the oxygen tension of the arterial blood  
Answer: 0  

Q11: The smaller the alveolus, the greater the alveolar pressure caused by the surface tension  
Answer: 1  

Q12: Cardiac pain can be irradiated to the back, right arm, jaw  
Answer: 1  

Q13: During heart failure main reason of edema is decreased capillary hydrostatic pressure.  
Answer: 0  

Q14: The second heart sound is heard at the beginning of ventricular relaxation  
Answer: 1  

Q15: The anatomical dead space is independent of the tidal volume  
Answer: 0  

Q16: The ischemic effect on vasomotor activity can greatly elevate the mean arterial pressure  
Answer: 1  

Q17: Cardiac conductivity occurs through modified cardiac muscle fibers  
Answer: 1  

Q18: Cardiac muscle uses aerobic and anaerobic source of energy  
Answer: 0  

Q19: Abnormally decreased cardiac output can result from acute venous dilation  
Answer: 1  

Q20: Diastole is shortened when HR is increased  
Answer: 1  

Q21: V5, V6 on the ECG represents anterior wall of the heart  
Answer: 0  

Q22: Arteries are more compliant compare to veins  
Answer: 0  

Q23: Angiotensin II decreases blood flow through the kidneys  
Answer: 0  

Q24: The left side of the interventricular septum is depolarized before the right side  
Answer: 1  

Q25: A-V valves close when the ventricular pressure exceeds atrial pressure  
Answer: 1  

Q26: Which phase of diastole is the most effective to direct much more blood from the atrium to the ventricle  
Answer: Rapid filling phase  

Q27: Longer P-Q interval on ECG suggests damage to the AV node  
Answer: 1  

Q28: Increased K permeability in SA node will cause a decrease in heart rate  
Answer: 1  

Q29: In man, the peripheral chemoreceptors are located in the carotid sinus and aortic arch  
Answer: 1  

Q30: The physiological dead space is always greater than the anatomical dead space  
Answer: 0  

Q31: The ______ equals the inspiratory reserve volume plus the tidal volume plus the expiratory reserve volume.  
Answer: vital capacity  

Q32: All these definitions are right for preload, EXCEPT  
Answer: preload is right atrial pressure  

Q33: If venous return is increased, more blood goes to the heart and greater the heart muscle is stretched during filling, the greater is the force of contraction and the greater the quantity of blood pumped into the aorta. This principle is called  
Answer: Frank-Starling law  

Q34: An increase in blood volume will cause  
Answer: All of the above  

Q35: The distribution of blood among the various organs of the body is regulated by the resistance of the  
Answer: Arterioles  

Q36: Coronary blood flow mostly occurs during  
Answer: diastole  

Q37: If alveolar gas has the same composition as humidified inspired air: PAO2 is 150 mm Hg and PACO2 is 0 and PaCO2 and PaO2 is decreased, V/Q equation will  
Answer: Infinity  

Q38: Diffusion coefficient is highest for  
Answer: CO2  

Q39: Carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning associated with  
Answer: decreased O2 content normal PO2, decreased saturation  

Q40: Non respiratory role of Respiratory system is  
Answer: all of them  

Q41: Surfactant  
Answer: reduces surface tension of the fluid lining the alveoli  

Q42: What percentage of the carbon dioxide produced is transported via hemoglobin?  
Answer: 20-25%  

Q43: Elastic recoil of the lungs  
Answer: Prevents the lungs from collapsing  

Q44: Which of the following belongs to the cellular respiration?  
Answer: oxidative phosphorylation  

Q45: Surfactant deficiency is NOT likely to produce  
Answer: Increased compliance of the lungs  

Q46: Normal V/Q equation is  
Answer: 0.8-1  

Q47: The highest resistance is in the  
Answer: Medium sized bronchi  

Q48: The vagus nerves penetrate the lung parenchyma and secrete acetylcholine cause mild to moderate constriction of the  
Answer: bronchioles  

Q49: When carbon dioxide is increased in the blood, it  
Answer: Causes oxygen to bind more to hemoglobin  

Q50: Regarding the pulmonary circulation  
Answer: The resistance of the pulmonary circulation is lower than systemic circulation  

Q51: At which of the following sites does the blood flow loses the greatest amount of energy?  
Answer: Arterioles  

Q52: The remaining volume in each ventricle after systole, about 40 to 50 milliliters, is called the  
Answer: end-systolic volume  

Q53: Nitric oxide  
Answer: has mainly a local action  

Q54: The growth of new blood vessels can be inhibited by  
Answer: All of the above  

Q55: V/Q equation is more than 1 in  
Answer: upper part of the lung  

Q56: Conductive system of the heart has capacity of creating heart rate, but not the same degree. What will be sequence of pacemakers (from high activity to low)  
Answer: SA node, AV node, Bundle of His, Purkinje fibers  

Q57: In cardiac conductive system phase 1 is created by  
Answer: Sodium funny channels  

Q58: Calcium source for the cardiac muscle mostly is  
Answer: extracellular space  

Q59: Cardiac weakness can be caused by deficiency of ______ in the extracellular fluid  
Answer: calcium  

Q60: PQ (PR) interval on ECG represents  
Answer: AV nodal conduction  

Q61: Which of the following would decrease mean arterial blood pressure?  
Answer: Dilation of the arterioles  

Q62: Peripheral resistance  
Answer: increases as blood viscosity increases  

Q63: Vascular remodeling may occur in response to a chronic increase in blood ______ or blood ______.  
Answer: pressure or volume  

Q64: Increasing vagal stimulation of the heart will cause an increase in  
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]  

Q65: Which of the following is NOT true about baroreceptors?  
Answer: Effect of their activation is increased heart rate  

Q66: Which of the following is NOT true?  
Answer: Renin-angiotensin vasoconstrictor system is faster to act for blood pressure control than the nervous reflexes  

Q67: Which of the following is NOT true about angiotensin II  
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]  

Q68: All are involved in ventricular filling except  
Answer: maximum ejection phase  

Q69: If total is decreased (for example after arteriolar dilatation)  
Answer: venous return and CO (cardiac output) both are increased  

Q70: In aortic stenosis you can hear  
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]  

Q71: The first heart sound "lub" is associated with closure of which valves at the beginning of systole?  
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]  

Q72: Listening to the sounds of the body, usually with the aid of a stethoscope, is called ______  
Answer: auscultation  

Q73: Some of the air a person breathes never reaches the gas exchange areas but simply fills respiratory passages where gas exchange does not occur, such as the nose, pharynx, trachea and bronchi. These spaces are called ______  
Answer: dead spaces  

Q74: The highest partial pressure of alveolar oxygen is in  
Answer: upper part of the lung  

Q75: Partial pressure of O2 is lower in trachea compare to atmosphere, because of  
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]  

Q76: Most amount (70 %) of CO2 is removed from the tissue as ______  
Answer: bicarbonate  

Q77: During isovolumetric relaxation time  
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]  

Q78: If a patient has an edema of both legs, reason can be  
Answer: right heart failure, liver failure, nephrotic syndrome  

Q79: The greatest percentage of blood volume is found in the  
Answer: veins  

Q80: Which of the following is decreased after compensation for the hemorrhage by baroreceptor reflex?  
Answer: Venous Compliance  

Q81: All these factors can increase preload, EXCEPT  
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]  

Q82: During heavy exercise  
Answer: total peripheral resistance is decreased and inotropy is increased  

Q83: Vasodilation in the heart and skeletal muscles during exercise is primarily due to the effects of  
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]  

Q84: The most permeable substance in capillary membrane is  
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]  

Q85: Pulse pressure is higher in the  
Answer: Large Arteries  

Q86: The ,,a" wave on the atrial pressure curve is caused by  
Answer: atrial contraction  

Q87: Ventricular pressure is higher than the atrial pressure in all phases of the cardiac cycle except in  
Answer: rapid ventricular filling phase  

Q88: Systolic pressure in right ventricle is  
Answer: 25 mmHg  

Q89: Lymph capillaries differ from systemic blood capillaries in that they  
Answer: Are absent in the CNS  

Q90: Edema may be caused by  
Answer: All of the above  

Q91: Flow of fluid through the lymphatic vessels will be decreased if there is an increase in:  
Answer: capillary oncotic pressure  

Q92: The greatest percentage of blood volume is found in the  
Answer: Veins  

Q93: Which of the following statements is correct  
Answer: Veins contain valves and arteries do not  

Q94: Active hyperemia occurs when tissue rate increases.  
Answer: metabolic  

Q95: The portion of end-diastolic volume that is ejected is called the ______.  
Answer: [Too long – skipped]  

Q96: The ______ equals the inspiratory reserve volume plus the tidal volume plus the expiratory reserve volume.  
Answer: Vital capacity  

Q97: Most amount (70 %) of CO2 is removed from the tissue as ______  
Answer: bicarbonate  

Q98: When the concentration of O2 in the air of the alveoli decreases below normal, the adjacent blood vessels constrict. This principle is called ______  
Answer: Hypoxic vasoconstriction  

Q99: Listening to the sounds of the body, usually with the aid of a stethoscope, is called ______  
Answer: Auscultation  

Q100: ______ increases salt and water reabsorption by the kidney tubules  
Answer: Aldosterone  

Q101: Reactive and active are examples of metabolic control of local blood flow ______  
Answer: Hyperemia  

Q102: Cardiac weakness can be caused by deficiency of ______ in the extracellular fluid  
Answer: Calcium  

Q103: Vascular remodeling may occur in response to a chronic increase in blood ______ or blood ______.  
Answer: pressure or volume  

Q104: Decrescendo diastolic murmur that radiates to the left sternal border can be heard in ______  
Answer: Aortic and pulmonic regurgitation  

Q105: Acetylcholine causes ______ of the S-A node  
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]  

Q106: Capillaries are arranged in ______.  
Answer: [Too long – skipped]  

Q107: Heart sounds can be amplified and recorded on a ______.  
Answer: Phonocardiogram  

Q108: Norepinephrine stimulates ______ receptors, which mediate the effects on heart rate.  
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]  

Q109: Factors that create arterial pressure are: the ______ and ______  
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]  

Q110: ______ are called capacitance vessels or blood reservoirs.  
Answer: Venules and veins  

Q111: Structure which can open and close the entrance to the capillary is called ______.  
Answer: sphincter  

Q112: Frank-Starling law shows relationship between ______ and stroke volume.  
Answer: end-diastolic volume  

Q113: Norepinephrine stimulates ______ receptors, which mediate the effects on heart rate.  
Answer: a1,a2 adrenergic  

Q114: The profunda brachii artery, the largest branch of the brachial artery  
Answer: 1  

Q115: The sciatic nerve innervates: all muscles in the posterior compartment of the thigh  
Answer: 1  

Q116: femoral vein becomes the external iliac vein when it passes under the inguinal ligament to enter the abdomen  
Answer: 1  

Q117: The axillary artery is separated into 3 parts by pectoralis major  
Answer: 0  

Q118: Inferior mesenteric artery: Its branches include the right colic artery, several sigmoid arteries, and the superior rectal artery.  
Answer: 1  

Q119: The major artery of the arm, the brachial artery, is found in the posterior compartment of the arm  
Answer: 0  

Q120: The ulnar artery and ulnar nerve enter the hand on the lateral side of the wrist  
Answer: 0  

Q121: The major artery of the pelvis and perineum is the external iliac artery on each side  
Answer: 0  

Q122: The internal iliac artery originates from the common iliac artery on each side, and lies anteromedial to the sacro-iliac joint  
Answer: 1  

Q123: The mental artery enters the face through the mental foramen and supplies the chin  
Answer: 1  

Q124: The inferior vena cava ascends on the left side of the vertebral bodies and to the left of the abdominal aorta.  
Answer: 0  

Q125: In men, the testicular arteries originate from the internal iliac artery and descend into the scrotum through the inguinal canal to supply the testes  
Answer: 0  

Q126: The axillary nerve originates from the posterior cord of the spacupar plexus  
Answer: 0  

Q127: The axillary nerve innervates the deltoid and teres minor muscles  
Answer: 1  

Q128: The right recurrent laryngeal nerve originates in the thorax, whereas the left recurrent laryngeal nerve originates in the root of the neck  
Answer: 0  

Q129: Suprapleural membrane attaches to the transverse process of vertebra:  
Answer: CVII  

Q130: There are ten bronchopulmonary segments in right and nine in left lung  
Answer: 0  

Q131: Most commonly left coronary artery is dominant  
Answer: 0  

Q132: The major structure in the anterior mediastinum is a thyroid gland  
Answer: 0  

Q133: The azygos vein arises opposite vertebra LI or LII at the junction between the left ascending lumbar vein and the left subcostal vein  
Answer: 0  

Q134: The liver and gallbladder are in the right upper quadrant  
Answer: 1  

Q135: The stomach and spleen are in the left lower quadrant  
Answer: 0  

Q136: The posterior branches of the abdominal aorta are superior phrenic arteries, the lumbar arteries, and the median sacral artery  
Answer: 0  

Q137: Median sacral artery passes in an inferior direction, first over the anterior surface of the lower lumbar vertebrae and then over the anterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx  
Answer: 1  

Q138: The cardiac skeleton also serves as a dense connective tissue partition that electrically isolates the atria from the valves  
Answer: 0  

Q139: The right pump of heart receives oxygenated blood from the lungs and sends it to the body  
Answer: 0  

Q140: The middle meningeal artery is a branch of the mandibular artery  
Answer: 0  

Q141: In the fetus, the umbilical artery is large and carries blood from the placenta to the fetus  
Answer: 0  

Q142: A 60-year-old man who had a history of a chronic duodenal ulcer was admitted to the ER exhibiting signs of a severe internal hemorrhage. He was quickly diagnosed with a perforation of the posterior wall of the first part of the duodenum and erosion of an artery behind it by the gastric expellant. The artery is most likely:  
Answer: Gastroduodenal  

Q143: Which of the following artery supplies superior part of the abdominal wall at the deeper level?  
Answer: Superior epigastric artery  

Q144: All of the following arteries are branches of the anterior trunk of internal iliac artery EXCEPT:  
Answer: Lateral sacral artery  

Q145: What is the term for the abnormal dilation or ballooning of the abdominal aorta?  
Answer: Aneurysm  

Q146: Which of the following artery exits from pelvic cavity above the piriformis muscle?  
Answer: superior gluteal artery  

Q147: From which artery arises superior vesicular artery  
Answer: Internal iliac artery  

Q148: External pudendal artery arises from:  
Answer: Femoral artery  

Q149: Internal pudendal artery participates in the blood supply of rectum by which artery?  
Answer: None of them above  

Q150: Which of the following artery is present in men but not in women?  
Answer: Inferior vesical  

Q151: All of the following arteries supply erectile tissue in men EXCEPT?  
Answer: Uterine artery  

Q152: Adductor region of thigh is supplied by:  
Answer: Obturator  

Q153: Which of the following artery passes between anterior rami of S1 and lumbosacral trunk?  
Answer: Superior gluteal  

Q154: A 17-year-old boy suffered multiple stab wounds on the upper part of the arm and requires surgery. If the brachial artery were ligated at its origin, which of the following arteries would supply blood to the profunda brachii artery?  
Answer: Posterior humeral circumflex  

Q155: A patient complains if having pain with repetitive movement of his thumb. His physician performs Allen test and finds an insufficiency of the radial artery. Which of the following conditions would be a result of the radial artery stenosis.  
Answer: A marked decrease in the blood flow in the princeps pollicis artery  

Q156: Which of the following is not a direct branch of the axillary artery?  
Answer: Thoracodorsal  

Q157: If the second part of axillary artery was interrupted, collateral blood flow could pass from branches of the thyrocervical trunk into which artery?  
Answer: Circumflex scapular  

Q158: In a fracture of surgical neck of the humerus, which artery may be injured  
Answer: Posterior circumflex humeral  

Q159: In a fracture of the midshaft of the humerus, which artery is most likely to be injured?  
Answer: Profunda brachii  

Q160: Mediastinum contains all the following structures EXCEPT:  
Answer: Lungs  

Q161: Coronary sulcus separates:  
Answer: Atria from the ventricles  

Q162: Coronary sulcus contains:  
Answer: Right coronary artery  

Q163: Which posterior mediastinal structure is most closely applied to the posterior surface of the pericardial sac  
Answer: Esophagus  

Q164: A hand slipped behind the heart at its apex can be extended upwards until stopped by a line of pericardial reflection that forms the:  
Answer: Oblique pericardial sinus  

Q165: Fibrous pericardium is attached to the diaphragm by:  
Answer: Sternodiaphragmatic ligament  

Q166: Fibrous pericardium is attached to the sternum by:  
Answer: Sternopericardial ligament  

Q167: Coronary sinus is located in the:  
Answer: Coronary sulcus on the posterior surface of the heart  

Q168: The right coronary artery supplies all the following parts of the heart EXCEPT:  
Answer: Superior portion of interventricular septum  

Q169: "Left main stem vessel" is alternative name of which artery?  
Answer: None of them above  

Q170: In which of the following structure drains the veins of Thabesius?  
Answer: Right ventricle  

Q171: A 54-year-old patient with amyloidosis and subsequent cardiac dysrhythmias undergoes implantation with the artificial cardiac pacemaker. Which of the following conductive tissues of the heart was defective in function that required pacemaker?  
Answer: SA node  

Q172: An 8-year-old boy with an ASD presents to his pediatrician. This congenital heart defect shunts blood from the left atrium to the right atrium and causes hypertrophy of the right atrium, right ventricle and pulmonary trunk. Which of the following veins opens into the hypertrophied atrium?  
Answer: Anterior cardiac vein  

Q173: Arch of Aorta starts after:  
Answer: Aorta enters to superior mediastinum  

Q174: The most common congenital heart defect is:  
Answer: Ventricular septal defect  

Q175: A 19-year-old man was brought to the emergency department after a motor vehicle accident, and his angiogram exhibited that he was bleeding from the vein that is accompanied by the posterior interventricular artery. Which of the following veins is most likely to be ruptured?  
Answer: Middle cardiac vein  

Q176: A 56-year-old patient recently suffered a myocardial infarction on the apex of the heart. The occlusion by atherosclerosis is in which of the following arteries?  
Answer: Anterior interventricular artery  

Q177: Coronary angiogram of a 44-year-old man reveals an occlusion of the circumflex branch of the left coronary artery, which leads to myocardial infarction in which of the following areas?  
Answer: Left atrium and ventricle  

Q178: A 64-year-old man with a history of liver cirrhosis has been examined for the hepatitis A, B and C. in an attempt to obtain a blood sample from the patient's medial cubital vein, nurse misses the vein and gets arterial blood. The blood most likely comes from which of the following arteries?  
Answer: Radial  

Q179: Superficial palmar arch is mainly created by:  
Answer: Ulnar artery  

Q180: In case of open injury of thumb, which of the following artery may be damaged?  
Answer: Princeps pollicis artery  

Q181: ______ vein will become axillary vein at the lower border of teres major muscle.  
Answer: Basilic  

Q182: Your patient complains of pain on her calf. Upon inspection, you find tortuous, dilated vessels lying subcutaneously on the posterior aspect of her leg. These vessels are most likely:  
Answer: Tributaries to the lesser saphenous vein  

Q183: The pulse of the femoral artery is best felt in which superficial reference point?  
Answer: Femoral triangle  

Q184: The femoral artery enters the popliteal fossa (becoming the popliteal artery) by passing through the:  
Answer: Adductor hiatus  

Q185: During surgical repair of a popliteal artery aneurism, ligation of femoral artery at mid-thigh would not interrupt supply to the hamstring muscles because:  
Answer: Cruciate anastomosis ensures blood supply to the posterior thigh  

Q186: Branch of internal iliac artery that exits through the greater sciatic foramen superior to the piriformis muscle:  
Answer: Superior gluteal  

Q187: A construction worker lacerates the dorsum of his foot just below his ankle. Profuse bleeding that occurs would result from cutting which vessel?  
Answer: Dorsalis pedis artery  

Q188: Arcuate artery is a branch of the:  
Answer: Anterior tibial artery  

Q189: External iliac vein will be created after vein passes beneath inguinal ligament  
Answer: Femoral  

Q190: Which of the following lumbar veins usually drain into the inferior vena cava?  
Answer: 3rd and 4th  

Q191: Which of the following statements about the abdominal aorta is correct?  
Answer: The abdominal aorta is entirely retroperitoneal  

Q192: The left gonadal vein drains into the:  
Answer: Left renal vein  

Q193: From The midclavicular line to the vertebral column the inferior boundary of the visceral pleura can be approximated by a line that runs between:  
Answer: Rib VI, Rib VIII, TX  

Q194: What is pneumothorax?  
Answer: A condition where air enters the pleural cavity  

Q195: What is the ligament that attaches epiglottis to thyroid cartilage?  
Answer: Thyro-epiglottic  

Q196: Trachea extends approximately between levels of:  
Answer: C6-T4 / CVI - TIV  

Q197: Which of the following is a function of the cartilaginous tracheal rings:  
Answer: Support tracheal wall and prevent air passageway from collapsing  

Q198: The bronchi, that directly conduct air in and out of the lung's bronchopulmonary segments are called:  
Answer: Tertiary bronchi  

Q199: A 31-year-old man was involved in a severe car accident and suffered laceration of the left primary bronchus. The damaged primary bronchus:  
Answer: Is longer than the right primary bronchus  

Q200: The Carina is:  
Answer: The lowest tracheal ring  

Q201: The medial surface of the right lung lies adjacent to a following structures in the mediastinum EXCEPT:  
Answer: aorta  

Q202: Right bronchial artery arises from:  
Answer: third posterior intercostal artery  

Q203: The lymph nodes found in the hilum of the lung are the:  
Answer: Bronchopulmonary lymph nodes  

Q204: Which of the following describes characteristics of left lung.  
Answer: Lingula of the lung  

Q205: A 37-year-old patient with chronic intermittent palpitation was examined by her physician, and one of the diagnostic studies included a posterior-anterior chest X-ray. Which of the following comprises the largest portion of the sternocostal surface of the heart seen on the radiograph?  
Answer: Right ventricle  

Q206: A radiologist reviews the chest radiographs a 27-year-old victim of a car accident. Which of the following structures forms the right border of the cardiovascular silhouette?  
Answer: RIGHT ATRIUM  

Q207: A 45-year-old woman presents with a tumor confined to the posterior mediastinum. This could result in compression of which of the following structures?  
Answer: descending aorta  

Q208: A 5-year-old girl is brought to the emergency department because of difficulty breathing, palpitations and shortness of breath. Dopler study of the heart reveals and atrial septal defect. This malformation usually results from incomplete closure of which of the following embryonic structure?  
Answer: Foramen ovale  

Q209: .......the continuation of the anterior tibial artery and begins as the anterior tibial artery crosses the ankle joint  
Answer: Dorsalis pedis artery  

Q210: From the third party of axillary artery originates all the branches, EXCEPT:  
Answer: Superior thoracic artery  

Q211: Identify superficial vein that drains the lateral and posterior parts of the hand, the forearm, and the arm:  
Answer: Cephalic vein  

Q212: At the apex of cubital fossa brachial artery divides into two major branches:  
Answer: Radial and Ulnar artery  

Q213: Which of the following provides the principal blood supply to the lateral side of the little finger, both sides of the ring and middle fingers, and the medial side of the index finger  
Answer: Common palmar digital arteries  

Q214: Which of the following supplies crus and corpus cavernosum of penis:  
Answer: Deep artery of the penis  

Q215: External puidendal arteries originate from:  
Answer: Femoral artery  

Q216: Bladder, ureter and seminal vesicle in men is supplied by:  
Answer: inferior vesical artery  

Q217: The Pleura is a membrane that surrounds the lungs.  
Answer: Serous  

Q218: The space between the parietal and visceral pleura is called:  
Answer: Pleural cavity  

Q219: Which of the following is true about arytenoid cartilage?  
Answer: Vocal cords are attached to it  

Q220: Which cartilage of the larynx is located inferior to the cricoid cartilage?  
Answer: None of the above  

Q221: The Choanae are:  
Answer: Oval-shaped openings between the nasal cavity and nasopharynx.  

Q222: From The midclavicular line to the vertebral column the inferior boundary of the visceral pleura can be approximated by a line that runs between:  
Answer: Rib VI, Rib VIII, TX  

Q223: At the apex of cubital fossa brachial artery divides into two major branches:  
Answer: Radial and ulnar artery  

Q224: Which of the following is correct about thoracic duct  
Answer: Thoracic duct drains lymph to the junction of left subclavian and left internal jugular vein  

Q225: Which of the following is CORRECT?  
Answer: The thoracic duct extends from vertebra LII to the root of the neck  

Q226: Which of the following is CORRECT?  
Answer: Right and left gastric veins draining the lesser curvature of the stomach and abdominal esophagus  

Q227: Middle colic, right colic and ileocolic arteries are the branches of:  
Answer: superior mesenteric artery  

Q228: Mostly, descending colons is supplied by:  
Answer: Left colic artery  

Q229: In most cases, Inferior mesenteric vein drains blood to:  
Answer: Splenic vein  

Q230: All of the cartilages are part of larynx, EXCEPT:  
Answer: Nasal septal cartilage  

Q231: The Cricoid cartilage has two article facets on each side, one for thyroid cartilage and one for:  
Answer: Arytenoid cartilage  

Q232: Which of the following cartilage has muscular process and vocal process  
Answer: Arytenoid  

Q233: All are true about larynx, EXCEPT  
Answer: The angle between the two laminae (Thyroid angle) is more acute in women - 90 degree  

Q234: During quiet respiration, in midaxillary line, inferior margin of the lung crosses rib:  
Answer: VIII  

Q235: Horizontal fissure seperates:  
Answer: Middle lobe from superior lobe  

Q236: How many lobar bronchus have right lung?  
Answer: 3  

Q237: Which of the following is true?  
Answer: Right main bronchus is wider and has more vertical courser than left  

Q238: All of the following are the parts of hilum, EXCEPT:  
Answer: Superior Vena Cava  

Q239: External iliac artery becomes artery as the vessel passes under the inguinal ligament  
Answer: Femoral  

Q240: has lateral and medial circumflex femoral branches and three perforating branches  
Answer: Deep artery of the thigh  

Q241: From the Originates anterior and posterior tibial arteries  
Answer: popliteal artery  

Q242: A 47-year-old man with a known history of chronic atrial fibrillation returns to see his cardiologist for follow-up of his cardiac health. The right atrium is important in this case because it:  
Answer: Contains the SA node  

Q243: The Superior mediastinum:  
Answer: Left recurrent laryngeal nerve  

Q244: The superior mediastinum contains all of the following EXCEPT:  
Answer: The coronary arteries  

Q245: Which statement is incorrect regarding left brachiocephalic vein?  
Answer: Receives the accessory hemiazygos vein  

Q246: The ligamentum arteriosus:  
Answer: Is one of the fixed point of attachment of the aorta  

Q247: Lymph from the kidney will drain into the:  
Answer: Para-aortic nodes  

Q248: The abdominal aorta gives off paired lumbar arteries that supply the spinal cord. How many pairs of lumbar arteries typically arise from the abdominal aorta?  
Answer: 4  

Q249: All of the following structures can be found on the level of transpyloric plane, EXCEPT:  
Answer: Gonadal arteries  

Q250: At what vertebral level does the abdominal aorta originate from the thoracic aorta?  
Answer: T12  

Q251: Which of the following artery is runs on the anterior surface of the psoas major muscle?  
Answer: Gonadal Arteries  

Q252: Abdominal aortic stent grafts are commonly used in the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms. What is the primary purpose of a stent graft in this context?  
Answer: To provide structural support to the aorta  

Q253: Retroperitoneal lymph node dissection (RPLND) is a surgical procedure commonly used in the treatment of testicular cancer. Which group of lymph nodes is often the primary focus of RPLND in this context?  
Answer: Pre-aortic lymph nodes  

Q254: Which of the following is true about mediastinum  
Answer: Middle mediastinum consists heart with pericardium  

Q255: The base of the heart consists all of the structures, EXCEPT  
Answer: Right pulmonary Surface  

Q256: Mitral (bicuspid) valve is located  
Answer: Between left atrium and left ventricle  

Q257: All are correct about heart surfaces, EXCEPT  
Answer: Right pulmonary surface mainly consists of the right ventricle  

Q258: In most cases, diaphragmatic surface of the heart is supplied by  
Answer: Posterior interventricular artery  

Q259: Sinu-atrial node is located  
Answer: At the superior end of the crista terminalis at the junction of the superior vena cava and the right atrium  

Q260: All of the following are branches of right coronary artery, EXCEPT:  
Answer: Diagonal branches  

Q261: Which of the following is CORRECT?  
Answer: The posterior cardiac vein lies on the posterior surface of the left ventricle just to the left of the middle cardiac vein  

Q262: Brachiocephalic vein is formed by junction of:  
Answer: Subclavian vein and internal jugular vein  

Q263: All of the following is correct, EXCEPT:  
Answer: The right brachiocephalic vein crosses the midline and joins with the left brachiocephalic vein  

Q264: Aortic valve is heard at:  
Answer: 2nd intercostal space  

Q265: Which of the following is correct about T4/T5 level  
Answer: All of the above  

Q266: How can we distinguish pericarditis from myocardial infarction  
Answer: Pain during pericarditis relieves when leaned forward  

Q267: Anterior interventricular artery is located in the:  
Answer: Anterior interventricular sulcus  

Q268: All of the following structures are seen in the superior mediastinum EXCEPT:  
Answer: Right recurrent laryngeal nerve  

Q269: What is the name of condition when aortic intima is split from media?  
Answer: Aortic dissection  

Q270: Lesser splanchnic nerve ends in the:  
Answer: Aorticorenal ganglion  

Q271: Murmurs of mitral valve best heard by stethoscope on the:  
Answer: None of them above  

Q272: In the middle region of the thorax the thoracic duct lies immediately posterior to the:  
Answer: Esophagus  

Q273: While viewing an exploratory surgery on a patient injured in an automobile accident, you see the surgeon elevate the esophagus off the vertebral bodies and look in the area between the azygos vein and descending aorta. What structure was he most likely looking for?  
Answer: Thoracic duct  

Q274: Cisterna chyli is a:  
Answer: Confluence of lymph trunks in the abdomen  

Q275: Which of the following is a branch of the third posterior intercostal artery?  
Answer: Right bronchial artery  

Q276: All the following structures can be seen between crura of the diaphragm EXCEPT:  
Answer: Thoracic duct  

Q277: In the posterior mediastinum:  
Answer: anterior to the body of thoracic vertebrae and posterior to the pericardial sac  

Q278: Which of the following statement is NOT correct regarding Thymus?  
Answer: Thymus has a symmetrical, bilobed structure  

Q279: Subcostal artery is a branch of the:  
Answer: Thoracic Aorta  

Q280: Azygos vein creates by junction of:  
Answer: None of them above  

Q281: A twenty-year-old woman was broad-sided on the driver side by an SUV and was taken to the hospital emergency room. Examination showed low blood pressure and tenderness on the left mid-axillary line. Also, a large swelling was felt protruding downward and medially below the left costal margin. X-rays revealed that her 9th and 10th ribs were fractured near their angles on the left side. The abdominal organ most likely to be injured by the fracture is:  
Answer: Spleen  

Q282: The fundus of the stomach receives its arterial supply from the:  
Answer: Splenic Artery  

Q283: While performing emergency surgery to control hemorrhage brought on by arterial erosion caused by a duodenal ulcer, surgeons ligated the badly damaged gastroduodenal artery near its origin, which affected all of its branches as well. Assuming "average anatomy", in which of the following arteries would blood now flow in retrograde fashion (backwards) from collateral sources?  
Answer: Right gastro-omental  

Q284: The inferior mesenteric vein usually joins which vein?  
Answer: Splenic vein  

Q285: Occlusion of the inferior mesenteric artery is seldom symptomatic because its territory may be supplied by branches of the:  
Answer: Middle colic  

Q286: The anastomotic artery running along the border of the large intestine is called the:  
Answer: Marginal Artery  

Q287: Right gastro-omental vein will drain to the:  
Answer: Superior mesenteric  